Welcome back.
I have a lot of code for you here.
And don't worry you're going to get access to this code as well.
You should probably see it on the left hand side over here.
And I recommend that in this video you play along with me as well.
Now I've created a little fun exercise for us because you see when it comes to promises there are three
things that are I think quite crucial for you to decide especially when you have multiple promises.
For example if let's say you had three promises that you need to handle.
There are a few ways that we can manage this right.
One is parallel that is I want you to execute all three of these promises or let's say Fetch calls or
anything they are I want you to run them in parallel all at the same time another way that we might
want to run them is sequential.
Right.
Maybe we want to run the first one and if the first one succeeds then the second one then the if the
second one succeeds then the third one or they're all dependent on each other and another way that we
might want to have is called a race.
That is I want you to call three things but whichever one comes back first just do that one and ignore
the rest.
So in this exercise I want us to demonstrate how we do parallel sequential and race when it comes to
asynchronous code so let's take a look at the code.
I have a function over here that's called permissive fi that as you can see takes an item and a delay.
So we're using permissive fi over here that takes a string a B.S. Just like our constants here and I'm
giving them a delay.
So I want you to return a promise with 100 millisecond delay five second delay and a three second delay.
And this is simply going to return for us a new promise and this promise doesn't do anything exciting
except resolve our ideas him with the delay that we specified but wrapped in a set timeout.
So we have that delay.
That's it.
A B and C if we console log A B and C we have functions here that we can call and if we call these functions
and run them we see that we have three promises.
Right.
Nothing too crazy.
Now we have the parallel version of a here and we've seen this before right.
We're gonna create an async function called parallel and this parallel will have promises that will
be a B and C and now we're going to use the await promise that all that we saw in the previous videos
to run all these promises at the same time and have Apple one.
I'll put two up with three and this is a common pattern that you see a lot of with multiple promises.
And these are going to be run in parallel so all at the same time.
And as you can see we're going to return parallel is done with the output of 1 2 and 3 which should
be a b and c because promise at all when we pass it an array of promises we'll return them one by one
like this so let's see this works I'm going to say parallel and then do a dot then and console dot log
you can see here that I'm just passing the function because dot then is going to get past whatever this
returns which is bright here into the console log and it's going to call console lock.
So it's the same as me doing data with console log data.
Same thing as that is just more concise this way so if I run this we wait a bit we wait a bit and then
suddenly we should have parallel is done with a b c up a one two and three is A B C because remember
we resolved it with the parameters that we gave it here right.
So that was parallel.
Nice and easy.
All of them at the same time.
That's very useful.
What about the next one the next one I want to do is race.
That is I want to have a race between all these three promises and whichever one returns first.
I wanted to be upper one and just log that and ignore all the other ones so that if I do race dot or
call race God then console dialogue Well if I run this.
Do you see how fast that was racist done and a return.
I don't care about all the other ones it's done.
And luckily for us promise comes with the DOT race method that does it for us.
So that it's quite similar to what we had up here right.
We just simply changed dot all to tie race and pass in array of promises and in this case a return first.
But if I had something that finishes faster than a let's say B finished in well 0 seconds.
If I run this look at that race is done and B wins out and that returned really really fast.
Let's bring this back to five seconds right.
So race is very very useful.
What about the next one which is sequence.
This is also quite useful.
That is sometimes what we want to make sure that we do one thing first then the next thing.
Then the third thing maybe they all depend on each other and we have to make sure that we have some
sort of order with async await.
We can do that pretty nicely and sequence is really really nice when it comes to async await because
when we had promises and chaining that can get really really nasty with sequences so let's have a look.
As you can see here we're not doing promised at all promised our race.
We're just awaiting.
I remember when we see the keyword awake.
This function is going to run and it's going to pause here until a returns and it's going to say output
is now equal to this and then we're going to wait and pause until B returns which in our case will be
five seconds and then we finally assign a top two and then it's going to pause and wait until C returns
and then wait until output 3 gets filled in with the value and then we finally return.
So because of this awake keyword we can pause this execution let's have a look.
If I do sequence dot then and then console dialog let's have a look here would click Run we're waiting
we're waiting we're waiting for all the things to settle and then finally eventually we'll get sequences
done a b c so that definitely took a lot longer than race but let's do something even more fun let's
have a race between all three things.
I'll say parallel and then I'll also say
race and remember because these are all asynchronous it doesn't matter what order I put them in because
when we actually receive something that's when the dot then console log gets run.
So the order doesn't matter here and even though I put race at the bottom.
This probably is gonna get finished before parallel and sequence.
All right I'm going to hit run.
Place your bets.
Who's gonna win.
Who's gonna be lost.
Ready.
Let's find out oh boy.
I got you all excited for nothing.
I misspelled Perla.
Let's try that again.
All right.
This time I promise it should work.
Place your bets.
Let's find out race is done.
That's fast.
What about the other ones.
Parallels Don.
All right.
That's good.
Sequences taking a long time and then finally sequence is done
was that what you expected.
Well it should be great.
Race is.
Well whatever is the fastest.
Just return.
Parallel is I want you all to do all the promises at the same time and sequences has to wait for each
one and do it sequentially very very cool next time you have a bunch of promises you have a bunch of
async code.
Think about what needs to happen.
Do you need to run them in parallel in sequence or do you just need to brace figure out what's best
for your program what's the most optimum way to do things.
And I'll leave the code for you here to play around with change out the times maybe do different things
on your own to explore these three concepts and I hope they'll come useful to you in your career.
I'll see in the next one by.